docs: document the discover-data-analysis Agent Builder skill (#6684) (#6715)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/builtin-skills-reference.md

$$$agent-builder-discover-data-analysis-skill$$$ `discover-data-analysis` {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5` {applies_to}`serverless: ga`
:   Analyzes {{esql}} query results in {{kib}} **Discover**, identifying patterns, trends, and anomalies by running aggregation queries against the full dataset. The skill receives the current query, columns, sample rows, and time range as an attachment, then runs 2 to 3 focused aggregation queries, renders an inline visualization for the main finding, and proposes drill-down queries. When the active [context-aware profile](/explore-analyze/discover/discover-get-started.md#context-aware-discover) is logs, metrics, or traces, the skill receives shape-specific guidance. For example, it uses the {{esql}} `TS` source command for time series metrics.

    **Assigned tools:** `platform.core.generate_esql`, `platform.core.execute_esql`, `platform.core.search`, `platform.core.list_indices`, `platform.core.product_documentation`, `platform.core.create_visualization`

>     **How to activate:** In addition to the [standard activation methods](skills.md#how-skills-are-invoked), this skill activates automatically when you open the **AI Agent** button from **Discover** in a new tab that is in {{esql}} mode and has no active conversation. Refer to [Analyze your data with AI](/explore-analyze/discover/discover-get-started.md#analyze-with-ai) for the full workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
    **How to activate:** In addition to the [standard activation methods](skills.md#how-skills-are-invoked), this skill activates automatically when you open the **AI Agent** from a Discover session tab that is in {{esql}} mode and has no active conversation. Refer to [Analyze your data with AI](/explore-analyze/discover/discover-get-started.md#analyze-with-ai) for the full workflow.
```

>     **How to activate:** Activates from the [standard activation methods](skills.md#how-skills-are-invoked) when the conversation is started from **Discover** in a tab that is in {{esql}} mode and has loaded results. The current query, columns, sample rows, and time range are automatically attached to the conversation, so the agent has the context it needs to run the analysis. Refer to [Analyze your data with AI](/explore-analyze/discover/discover-get-started.md#analyze-with-ai) for the full workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
    **How to activate:** Activates from the [standard activation methods](skills.md#how-skills-are-invoked) when the conversation is started from a Discover session tab that is in {{esql}} mode and has loaded results. The current query, columns, sample rows, and time range are automatically attached to the conversation, so the agent has the context it needs to run the analysis. Refer to [Analyze your data with AI](/explore-analyze/discover/discover-get-started.md#analyze-with-ai) for the full workflow.
```
